code / 咖啡 / 钢笔 / 键盘 / 阅读 / 乒乓（很久不打）


Dear professors, my name is Yue Siyuan.  I am a recent graduate majoring in Computer Science from Harbin Institute of Technology, and I am honored to to have the opportunity to participate in the re-examination.
During my university years, I studied Professional  Courses in Computer Science such as  Computer System , Formal Language and State Machine , Digital Logic and Digital System Design, Principle of Compilation, Deep Learning, and so on, and achieving scores  over 90 in Computer System, Operating System, and Principle of Computer Organization. These courses  laid a solid theoretical foundation for me, cultivated my basic academic literacy.
In addition to my academic curriculum, I actively engaged in self-study courses and projects. In my sophomore year, I studied the OS course from Nanjing University online and did his labs. I realized the importance of RTFM , STFW , RTFSC , and possibly in 2024, AFAI to assist in solving problems more efficiently. I enhanced my understanding of OS and and honed my debugging skills through experiments. This process cultivated my interest in system software. During the summer of my junior year, I participated in the HarmonyOS Innovation Class to learn about the technology of it and knew the requirements for building such a massive platform, including WuKong, Hitrace, Hiperf and many others  for sampling, analysis toolchains, which further deepened my interest in system software.
The carrier of software is hardware. At the beginning of this semester in March, after finishing the entrance examination, I learned about the One Life One Chip project and started to devote energy to learning more about hardware-software co-design. This restructured my understanding of chip design and gave me a profound insight into the state machines at three levels: Program-ISA- Implementation. I reviewed and learned the digital logic knowledge which I had forgotten and preliminarily completed the pre-study phase of One Life One Chip, hoping to continuously work hard on coding and eventually achieve the Phase A tape-out target.
In the fields of computer architecture and system software, I have a strong interest and passion. I am attracted by the complexity and optimization challenges of computer systems and aspire to deeply study the principles and design of computer architecture and explore the development and optimization techniques of system software.
I am also fully aware that there are still many gaps in my knowledge and a lack of project practical experience in this area. In the future, I will strive to catch up, make progress to fill these gaps, enhance my professional literacy, and strive to become a qualified graduate student in Computer Science and Technology.
Thank you for your listening.